From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, but weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists, Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 69 and
recorded live Friday, June 19th, 2009. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by teller at Reb controls.
The most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers
journal the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott talks about the
arc of unit testing with
Roy . Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and I'm sitting down today
with Roy Chareau, the chief
architect at type Mark, and
also the author of the
art of unit testing. Thanks
Roy, for chatting with me
today. Hi, nice and nice
to be here. So you
do a lot of unit
testing. You are definitely a
practitioner of correct unit testing.
You've you've been doing this
for years and years and
years, and you work for
a company now that enables
unit testing. Indeed. You've written
on the subject. And you
also have been speaking here
at the Norwegian developers conference
on unit testing. Yeah, it
was a full day yesterday
for me. Yeah, you've been
doing a lot of sessions.
Now you had, you have
been doing a thing lately
on your blog. That's pretty
cool where you're doing test
reviews. You're doing code reviews
of various different chunks of
code. You actually did a
review on nerd dinner as
a screencast, which I thought
was cool. So you have
a little picture of you
in the corner and you're
walking through the code and
you're saying what's good and
what's bad. What are the
things that you've reviewed so
far on your blog so
far, I've only done the
three of these. I'm trying
to find the time to
do more. I think now
I'll have some more free
time. I did the review
for nerd dinner. I did
a review for the unity,
Microsoft unity tests and for
the asp.net MVC unit test.
So you actually look into
the source code for MVC
and the test that we
shipped with it and reviewed
those. Exactly. Okay. So let's
talk about some of the
things that were good or
bad about any of those
things. I know that there
were some things in Nerdina
that were kind of sloppy,
but there were also some
things in MVC itself that
you thought were pretty cool.
So maybe we can talk
a little about, about where
to start. Cause I'm thinking
a lot of people who
are listening to this show
either are writing in a
test or want to, but
they may not be following
best practices or really any
practices at all. Where do
I, you know, where do
we start? Well, it'd be
hard for me to remember
exactly all the little quirks
that I saw in all
the reviews, but there were
things that just kept repeating
themselves. The first, first of
all, in terms of quality,
the, the asp.net MVC unit
tests and the unity source
code tests were Really good
to watch. It was a,
it was a pleasure to
see that there were people
inside Microsoft who really, how
would I say embrace the
whole idea of not just
writing a test, but took
into account the idea of
quality unit tests. I think
that the things that people
usually repeat the most in
terms of problems in test
is the readability of tests.
That is the naming conventions.
The way the tests are
organized, the code inside the
tests. And usually if you
think about a unit test
and what makes them good,
there are three main pillars.
The first one is trustworthiness.
Are you able to run
your test and trust the
results? So if your test
fails, are you okay with
that? That it fails? Or
do you hear sentences in
your job that say, for
example, Oh no, that's okay.
It's supposed to fail. Or
that only fails every second
time. It failing for the
right reason. Is that what
you're saying? No, it, it
might fail for the right
reason or the wrong reason.
The question is, do you
trust the result? So if
you have tests where you
see a result, but you
still go in debug your
code, just to make sure
or you draw, you see
a result and you say,
no, no, it's the wrong
result. I know what really
happening. That means you don't
trust your tests. Okay? And
that clearly creates a big
problem because at some point
they're going to fail or
pass for the wrong reason,
and you're not going to
trust that result. Okay? So
you lose all the confidence
or the time saving the
tests are supposed to give
you. The second one is
maintainability. A lot of people
write tests, but the main
maintenance cost of raw changing
the test. Every time you
take you change, the code
is too high. So a
few months later they start,
they stop maintaining the tests.
And that leads to a
big problem. Cause now they've
also lost all the time
of writing the test and
they don't get all the
benefit of having them there.
They don't run them, they
don't maintain them. And that's
a very big issue. And
there are simple workarounds for
that kind of thing. Like
reusing code inside tests, refactoring.
Now readability is an issue
because it usually leads to
the other two people, right?
Unreadable tests, someone, a test
fails. Someone tries to understand
why it fails. They don't
understand why to start debugging.
They may not understand the
results or they don't trust
the result, or they don't
maintain it because they don't
understand what they should change.
And it just deteriorates from
there. But all those three
pillars are just connected. You
just, you remove one and
the other to fail or
some point. And the one
that really resonated with me
was the first one they're
on, on being able to
trust it. I like that
a lot. The idea that,
so let me say, if
I have a test and
it fails and you just
said like, well, it didn't
really fail. It failed for
this other reason. Or this
is an expression reality. I
can't trust this. Does that
mean that the test is
testing too much or too
little or the wrong thing?
I mean, if I see
a test that I can
no longer trust, what is
the next action that I
should take so that I
might trust that test in
the future? Well, there's, They're
all things that you can
take action to, to prevent
this problem. If you already
have this problem there, you
really have to understand why
it's there and then solve
the, the, the core problem.
Not the, not the symptom.
This is just a symptom
of some different problems. Things
that lead to untrust to,
to test you can trust.
One of the core things
is when you actually mix
integration and unit test together
in the same project. So
what happens is because integration
tests require configuration or that
kind of stuff. They may
not necessarily pass by default.
You have to configure me.
Maybe you have to have
a database somewhere. So what
happens is in real team,
developers may get the day's
version of all the source
code and try to run
all the tests. And some
will pass. Some will fail.
Usually the integration tests may
not pass on the first
time. So they get a
mix of red and green
results from the tests. And
of course, the first sentence
they hear is that's okay,
these tests or integration tests,
they're supposed to fail because
it didn't configure this and
that and so on. So
they, what happens is that
they don't even bother to
start configuring the test to
make them pass. They just
say, Oh, he's integration desk.
I have better things to
do than make it past.
I'll just continue on. And
what happens is they don't
bother checking all the tests,
whether they're integration related and
all that stuff, they have
better things to do. There
is no what I call
a safe green zone, a
piece of a project where
all the tests there should
be green by default, no
excuses. And so the simplest
thing is to, to manage
integration, separate from unit testing,
different project, different things, spaces.
So as a developer, I
can get the latest version
right-click on all the pieces
of, of the project that
only have unit tests and
they should all pass. And
that way I know that
something has to be OK
if something there fails, I
know that there has to
be a problem. I trust
these tests. So at least
I have a piece of
the tests I can trust.
See, this is good. You
actually answered my next question,
which was going to be
so often I see unit
tests and integration tests mixed.
What is the correct way
to keep those things separate?
I can actually think of
some projects internally at Microsoft
right now where the argument
about unit testing versus integration
testing is happening. We're all
unit using unit testing tools
for both unit testing and
integration testing, that blurs things
for new, for new people.
And you saying you recommend
different namespaces and even different
assemblies. Yeah. Usually I use
different projects for real, for
different assemblies so that I
can easily in a command
line run only integration or
both, or just one of
them. But, but seriously, just
on the, on the human
factor, it's easier to run
all the tests in their
project and all the tests
in a namespace or a
folder just easier. So you
want to make things easier
for people and they will
do them, but you need
to define what is the
difference between integration and unit
test. Some people will define
a unit test as testing
only the smallest piece of
code. For example, just a
method. I define it as
something that runs only memory
runs fast, does not touch
any external state and is
repeatable. Whether it touches multiple
classes or multiple methods, as
far as I'm concerned, it's
still a unit test. Some
people will say, no, that's
an integration test. Once you
cross over the line to
even test the code of
another class. But as far
as I'm concerned, as long
as all the code under
test is under your control,
it's your code it's and
it runs in memory and
is repeatable and doesn't touch
external States, such as databases
file systems or even statics.
It could be considered a
unit test. Okay. I think
you definitely said something that
resonated with me there. You
should have said that as
long as you're testing code,
that is under your control
because when I think of
a unit and I've actually
had these big arguments at
previous jobs where we sit
around and we argue about
the definition of the word
unit, is it a method?
Is it a few lines?
Is it a, is it
a one, one pass through
a method? But I like
the idea of kind of
mentally drawing a circle, like
a dotted line around some
chunk of code, an arbitrary
chunk of code. It could
be one method could be
10, but it isn't a
logical unit of code. And
what you just said, that
kind of crystallized for me
was that, and all of
that is under your control.
Yes. Third party libraries are
mocked away. Things that are,
I can't affect are not
part of that unit. Yeah.
I'm testing. And, and, and
as far as we were
talking about, you know, faking
things out, I don't like
the word mocked away. So
there has to be a
difference between mocks and stubs
and people use the word
mocking when they actually mean,
no, I'm just creating a
stub or I'm faking this
out. And I think that
we should stop using the
. Well, let's take a
moment to actually, and let's
step, let's take a moment
from the conversation. Let's step
aside. And why don't you
explain to me mocks, fakes
and stuffs. Okay. So fakes
are basically everything that looks
like something, but it's fake
because of your test. Okay.
Okay. Now, depending on its
usage, it's either a stub
or a mock object. Okay.
Okay. So categorically they're all
fakes, but a mock object
is that thing that you
might assert against to check
if your test is passed.
Okay. So it's a fake
object that decides if your
test has passed or not,
a stub is just something
that helps your test run.
Okay. So a stub is
something that I would write
just to get through, just
to get, get it, to
work, get it, to compile,
to get it, to actually
run, actually run. Yes. But
a mock actually has some
behavior that I might, Mark
is something that I will
assert against might have behavior,
and I'm not asserting against
it. Then it's a stub.
Okay. I might have multiple
stubs in a site, a
test. Okay. But I will
only have one mockup only
testing. One thing a step
might have, but it may
not Be behavior that I
am going to assert against.
It's just behavior that I
needed to do. Yeah. It
just mimics the system. As
far as I'm concerned now,
in the book X unit
test pattern patterns, there are
more definitions of these kinds
of fake objects. There's tests,
PI, there's a test double
and all that kind of
stuff. And they all are
just sub categories of that
fake object that I just
talked about. But for if
you're just getting started, there
is no need to learn
about all these different things.
You just need to know
that I have these fake
objects. And if I look
at the end of the
test and the assert is
not, is against one of
those fake objects, then that
fake object is a mock
option. Everything else is a
step. Okay, good. So then
for the, for the new
people who aren't necessarily into
unit testing that are learning
about this, let's take what
we just talked about and
let's bring it back. And
let's imagine two tests that
do that are one is
a unit test of something.
And one is an integration
test of the same thing.
Let's say that we're talking
to the database. So I'm
going to go and test,
get customer. I've got to
get customer unit test. I've
got to get customer integration
test. Is that a reasonable
scenario? Well, actually database related
tests are a special case
as far as I'm concerned
because I a few test
testing a data access layer.
I would not recommend writing
a unit test for that.
I would actually recommend to
test it with a real
database because data access layer
has very thin if any
logic whatsoever. And it usually
just creates either queries and
sends them to the database.
And then the database contains
another piece of that same
logic. You want to test
a logic inside the database,
whether it's triggers, stored procedures,
table relations, that's, that's something
that's usually you don't test
unless you invoke it through
the data layer. I see
that's all the same unit
as far as I'm concerned.
So it has to be
in here. So maybe then
a more appropriate thing would
be to raise the layer
of abstraction a bit to
a, a service layer. That
An example that I usually
use is a very simple
one where let's say that
you have this class called
storage and this class takes
an object would properties and
given some property debts ruin
the object. The requirement is
that the class calls some
sort of lager. Okay. Okay.
Logs to the system, or
maybe it's a web service.
Okay. Okay. So our decision
is what do we do
with that lager? The lager
is considered a dependency because
it talks to the external
system. That's try, I'm trying
to test storage, not the
logger. Is that correct? You're
trying to assess it. The
requirement that it calls the
logger. Okay. Given that a
property on the object being
sent is true. So if
the Sarge is being sent
with an object too large,
it says to the log,
I got an object too
large. Okay. Okay. So you
will see in the log
file later object with this
size, we'll send it. Okay.
So to make sure that
I understand, cause I don't
wanna, I don't want to
be incorrect. We're trying to
the unit of work we
are testing is that our
object called the logger, not
that logging occurred or that
things got written to disk,
but that our objects behavior
it's expected behavior call the
lager. If it's too large,
et cetera, et cetera. When
a unit test and integration
test, in this case, if
I was writing an test,
I would actually test that
after calling the save method
on the storage, I would
test that there is actually
a file on the system
with specific texts inside it.
Excellent example. And if I
was testing it as a
unit test, I would test
the interaction between the storage
and the logger without ever
having a real blogger in
the system at all. So
would that mean that between
these two theoretical tests, the
unit tests and the integration
test that a large chunk
of the code would be
the same? It's the assertions
that are going to be
different? The assertion will be
probably be on a different
object. Yes. One of them
will be on a file
system and you will also
have to clean up after
yourself in the test to
clean up the file that
was generated. And the, on
the unit test, you would
have to create some sort
of fake lager initialize the
storage with that fake logger,
and then assert on that
fake logger that it was
indeed called with the right
parameters. And so you would
have to somehow save that
information on that method call
and th that's where isolation,
frameworks, or what usually people
call mocking frameworks come in,
where they allow you to
create those fake objects dynamically.
So in that case, that
fake object would indeed be
a mock object. Okay. Do
you know how to make
the possible out of the
impossible? Well, the dotnet ninjas
at Telerik do they just
released a huge pack of
web controls, all built on
top of ESPN at Ajax,
that'll help you build impossibly
fast and interactive applications in
no time at all. They've
made the impossible possible in
desktop development. If you think
you can have a carousel
component and wind farms while
you can, their windows form
suite features a super powerful
grid, view control, and 32
other crazy desktop components that
will give you a dazzling
WPF like features, but in
wind farms, they do the
same thing in reporting solutions
with a new design surface,
like nothing else looks just
like graph paper gives you
advanced page layout capabilities makes
it feel more like a
graphic design software than a
reporting solution. Go check them
out@telerikdotcomandbeat.net Ninja. Thanks for listening.
It's good that you have
these strong opinions about how
we call things because really
an object oriented systems and
in programming in general, what
you name something, colors, your
the way you perceive it
and the way you start
thinking about it. So, you
know, I've got this work
word, mock stuck in my
head and I'm using it
and it's coloring my perceptions.
Yeah. You're saying rather than
mock framework, like the product
that your company makes as
an isolation frameworks, you're making,
you're picking a much more
descriptive. Well, I think all
the other frameworks are a
citation framework as well. They're
not mocking framework because otherwise,
if they were mocking frameworks,
all they will generate for
you is mock objects, but
they also generate for you
steps. I see. So that,
that confuses if you know
the difference that confuses you,
if you don't know the
difference, you don't know enough
anyway. Okay. Okay. So I
don't want people to be
confused. The whole idea of
these frameworks is to help
you easily isolate a unit
from the unit. It depends
upon, so it's a nice
relation framework. Okay. Excellent. And
Then what kind of, you
know, how other than knowing,
like you're saying, knowing intuitively
to smell whether the code
is good or not, whether
the test is correct, what
are some of the things
to watch for? You had
mentioned naming conventions, whether or
not something was truly isolated
or not? Well, there are
smells that are symptoms. When
you run tests, for example,
tests have to be isolated
from each other as well.
They, they have should have
no repercussions on other tests.
So if you have a
test that a Fritz run
before another one, so if
tests are running specific order,
they fail. But if they're
running another order, they pass,
that's a very common smell.
That's a very common smell.
That's usually means that you
probably have an integration test
on your hands anyway, and
that you're not cleaning up
after your test. So they're
using the same shared state
and they're not rolling back
after changing it. And that
means they're not isolated, but
a very common mistake, which
people don't notice is that
they actually write tests that
invoke other tests. And the
reason they usually do that
is to actually reuse code.
They do that to reuse
code for good reason, because
they don't want to repeat
the same coding test. Okay.
But they buy, they do
it badly because that other
test runs. And, but the
setup method for that other
test, doesn't run the tear
down method for the other
test, doesn't run any, and
there's another Cirque running there.
So they're testing two things
at the same time, but
the conditions are unknown. So
there are two, two ways
to screw that up, either
not to clean up after
yourself or invoke other tests,
but there are simpler things
there. There's the notion of
testing multiple things. If you
have multiple asserts in your
tests, 90% of the time,
it means you're testing more
than one thing. And if
you're testing more than one
thing in a test, it
will be hard to give
it a good name. It
will be if it fails,
it means that either multiple
things fail. So it will
be harder to find what
it is that failed and
assert when it fails throws
an exception. So every assert
assert after it will never
run. So you don't know
the full picture. Okay. That's
why you want usually just
want to start per test,
Which is interesting. Cause that
was the next question I
was going to ask you
is that I find when
I'm writing tests that I
end up doing a lot
of copy pasting and I
get, I get a lot
of tests that have like
four or five lines that
are repeated over and over
again. Then I kind of,
I'm not sure if I
should extract method and pull
those out. And then I
ask myself, well, do I
need one assert per test
or five or six? I
say, well, you know, while
I'm here, I've got these
objects. Why don't I go
and assert these seven or
eight different things? And you
just kind of answered my
question. You think one assert
cert protest. Well, it depends
what it is. You're testing.
If you remember the idea
is that you're testing one
logical thing. Okay. So a
one to start protest usually
is enough. The only time
where it's not enough is
when you're testing different properties
on the same object as
the same logical result. Okay.
Sorry. I missed, I'm asserting
that I'm getting back an
object that looks like this
and this and this. So
that's where you would have
maybe multiple certs, but they're
all part of the same
logical check, Okay. To say,
make sure that a customer
count is greater than zero
and than a hundred. I
don't have to go in
and make another whole test
just because I want to
check two batteries at the
same thing That it's, well,
if you're getting back an
object, if you can create
an expected object and then
equal between them, that's, that's
one assert that's testing multiple
things at the same time.
If you can do that
kind of thing, it means
you're testing one thing. Okay.
Okay. But usually people are
testing more than one thing
without realizing it. Now, one
of the things that in,
in, when you do the
nerd dinner test review, that
we didn't do a good
job on was the naming.
And I know that you
feel strongly about naming tests
correctly. Why is that something
Well, naming tests, there are
two audiences for the test
names. First of all, if
we talk about the beginner
crowd that just gets started
writing unit tests, the pattern
that I use for, for
tests has three parts that,
that are very, how would
I say they're very strict.
You're, you're forced to write
the name of the method
on your test, the, the
scenario in which you're testing
it. So a given database,
it contains two rows calling
a method X, and then
you have third part, which
is the expected behavior, then
extra Troy and exception. Okay.
So you're you were saying
that your method name is
saying, given this. Yeah, but
not in that order, you
mean usually mean just the
name of the method, behavior
and a name of the
method, sorry. Scenario expected behavior.
And then there are underscores
between those and then the
scores are there to tell
you that there are three
parts. So if you forget
one, you know about it,
You're not putting it on
you. Don't like putting underscores
between every word you put
in between the parts. So
can you give me an
example of a couple of
'em Let's talk about the
test. I just talked to,
I just explained earlier. So
if I was testing class
storage and had a mess
method save, then the test
will be called save underscore
object tool to large underscore
calls, logger writes to log
or something like that. Okay.
So it's almost like, like
a sentence, but it's structured
enough. So that beginners will
always remember to write all
these parts. Now, as they
get comfortable, they can create
their own naming convention. But
these three parts are important
because now we're talking about
the other audience and that's
the person who reads the
test that you wrote. And
that's the person that didn't
write that test and they
need to understand why it's
failing and why White's passing.
Now, if the test name
does not contain all these
three parts, then they have
to go into the test
and understand and go through
the code. And that takes
time. Now, usually when you
have, let's say a thousand
tests running and five of
them fail, the only thing
you've seen test runner is
to test names. You don't
see comments, you don't see
anything else. So if I
can, just, by looking at
the test names at the
test runner, figure out what
is a problem and go
directly to production code. I've
just saved a lot of
time. And I know exactly
what is the problem in
terms of the requirement and
the problematic behavior. Now, a
BDD style naming and all
that stuff. They all contain
those same three parts, right?
They just contain them in
different structures. That's interesting that
you say that because I've
seen people say, well, you
should name your tests a
certain way. You shouldn't give
them a structure because when
they're out, when they are
alphabetized and a long list,
it makes things, makes things
implicitly grouped, which is good.
You're saying put all three
bits of information in the
method because that's what most
test runner shows. But like
you just said, BDD, or,
you know, behavior driven design
people often say, well, I
don't want those three pieces
in my method. I'm going
to put part in my
namespace part of my class
and part of my method.
But then you have to
go and change the output
columns. If your test runner,
to show you those bits
of information, it's not really
in one place. Well, sometimes
people will actually go to
a different structure where there
is a class per a
specific method under test our
class for a specific behavior
under test. And the class
is actually the context of
the class name could be
the context. And the setup
of the class is to
set up all of all
the possible test cases. And
then each test case inside
the class has just under
different assert. And that makes
sense when you're testing multiple
results of the same action,
it makes less sense when
you're, you have very simple
tests where you're just given
this, I'm getting back that
right. You can do both
sides of tests. I'm not
a big proponent of the
BDD way because I think
beginners find it much harder
to get started with. Yeah.
They find it easier to
read, but to get started
writing that kind of stuff
is a, is a, is,
is kind of hard for
them. And for, for writing
tests, the simple way is
just a way to, to
ramp up and for after
that, you know, if that
makes sense, going to a
different style of writing tests,
definitely go ahead and do
that. Now, is that what
they call the context specification
style of testing? Well, there
is a context specification and
there is a, there are
a whole bunch of different
categories. I'm not, I don't
think that I quite understand
all the differences between them.
I never really got into
that whole world. I'm still
trying to get in there.
I'm still trying to find
more value in that style
of writing right then in
my current style. And I've
been looking at that for
maybe six months now, and
I still haven't found enough
for me to switch Not
enough, compelling enough to make
a change. Nice. There are
some very elegant to solutions
there, but personally, I really
like the really, really simple
simplicity of the way that
I write test today. Everyone
gets that I can teach
that everyone does that very
easily. He's just a great
way to have greater adoption.
And adoption, I think is,
is something that we should
all be striving for. And
the more we complex things,
the less people will adopt
these great practices. Now, how
does this scale you had
made the comment that when
you have thousands of tests,
what does the structure look
like? If my solution, let's
say I've got some fairly
good sized system and I've
got a thousand tests, do
I have a few hundred
per project? Do I have
many assemblies? You'd said we
might have assemblies for unit
tests and assemblies integration tests.
Where are my partitions? How
do I chop this thing
up? I usually just naming
conventions of the project. So
you'd have project X or
project, and then you would
have project X dot tests,
and then you have project
X dot integration tests. So
you'd have max of three
of threes. So, and that
way, if you look at
the, the solution tree, you
would see them next to
each other. Some people like
to group them by folders
and or group them by
namespace. It starts with tests
and then the same name
of the project. Okay. So
it's all a matter of
just being consistent as long
as they are. It's easier
to find some, given a
name of a project. It's
easier to find all the
tests for it. I'm okay
with that. Okay. So then
within a testing assembly itself,
let's say that I've got
some assembly. That's got many,
many classes. When, when do
I make a new class
within my test assembly? Well,
I usually start, especially at
the beginner level with a
class, a under test, I
will have a class for
each class under a test.
I will have a test
class. Okay. So you're still
one-to-one so one assembly, one
test assembly, one test class,
Start a one to one.
And I start with the
mapping of, well, if I
test a method, I start
with a test method. Okay.
But at some point you
might realize that you, you
already a lot of tests
just for one method and
you would separate the class
for just one methods test
or, or you would go
further. And you'd say, I
have a class for a
specific scenario for a product,
and then it can no
longer maps to a specific
class. It just maps to
specific scenarios on the whole
product and then checks multiple
classes at the same time.
It's all a matter of
what you're comfortable with, but
the easiest one is just
mapping one-to-one at the beginning.
Now I may be inappropriately
obsessed with a cyclometic complexity,
but typically when I have
a class, a method rather
than has a couple of
inputs, I always try to
have, you know, a reasonable
amount of code coverage. I
don't necessarily go for 90,
you know, 90% plus, or
try to overly focus on
that metric. But I usually
just can't stop myself from
writing lots of negative tests.
I'm always doing this. I
want to, I tend, I
don't know why it is
if it's, if it's correct
or if it's just me
and I'm wrong, I'm always
trying to throw inappropriate inputs
into my methods. Cause you're
a really negative guy. I'm
truly a negative person. Very,
very negative. A lot of
black t-shirts do I, is
that right? I mean, what's
the ratio of negative test
to positive tests. I'm always
trying to break stuff. And
I find by throwing inputs
at my methods, that it
lets me understand more kind
of like figuring out the
negative space. Lets you understand
the positive When they read
the test already ready before
or after the method. That's
an interesting point. So as
funny you've actually caught me
in something, I think I
write the positive tests first
and that helps me design
it. And then once I've
got it, mostly working, I
write a bunch of negative
tests. I'm not sure if
that's, but that's what I
do. Well, yeah, that's, that's
close to what I do.
If I write tests in
a test first manner and
then that's what I usually
do. I will, I will
drive real functionality. I will
never start with an invalid
value because you don't provide
real value and you can
go to your boss and
say, Hey, you know what?
This doesn't handle now. This
totally does not. It handles
in Valley values. Amazing. No,
he doesn't do anything, but
you can send minus one.
It'd be amazing. Exactly. So
you have to start with
real value and as you
get real value that you
can actually demo, it can
start throwing in unvalued, invalid,
especially with some types of
work. You can, you can
dive really deep into a
bunch of invalid values. At
some point you might want
to start doing range testing,
which is just getting all
the valleys from some Excel
file, just throwing it at,
at the, at the methods,
seeing what happens. But I
would only do that kind
of thing or maybe throwing
in random values after I've
I felt comfortable with the
method. So I will tell
people you should stop writing
tests for a method when
you feel comfortable about it.
So they say, what does
that mean? I say, okay,
remember where you didn't write
tests. When would you have
stopped writing or debugging the
method when you, when you
felt okay about it. Right,
right, right. You're going to
get to that feeling after
you have enough tests, when
will you have enough tests
when you feel comfortable about
it? So it really is
about that. Whether you have
that sense of, of safety,
because the test is supposed
to provide a sense of
comfort. It is it's about
people. And if people don't
trust the tests, either they
need to write more tests
or something and the test
is wrong. That brings us
full circle to your, your
first pillar, which the one
that really resonated with me
was that I need to
trust these tests. Yes. Are
they testing? So now what
were the other two pillars
again, There is maintainability and
readability. Okay. So readability makes
sense to me. I can
understand how unreadable tests would
be a problem. I know
that there are people like
Jim Newkirk and Brad Wilson
that don't feel that set
up and tear down is
an important part of tests.
Having a class, start up,
prepare some things, get some
context, ready, have a bunch
of tests run and then
have a tear down. Do
you feel strongly one way
or the other? I think
it's a bit of a
nitpicking. I think that beginners
shouldn't care about this kind
of nitpicking. They should start
with this because it's very
simple. And at some point,
if they see any pain
points, they can start not
using set up and tear
down. It does. It can
hurt readability if you, if
you, if you abuse set
up and tear down methods,
but here's a little tip.
If you use tear down
methods, usually assign you're doing
integration testing. Just so you
know, I almost never use
Teradyne methods because if you
have to clean up after
yourself, it means that you're
probably doing integration. Testing set
up is very, very common,
but people abuse it because
set up should only be
used for creating things that
all the tests in that
specific class use. So if
I look at a setup
and I see what's created
there, Oh, calculator, okay. Then
I know it's used all
over. If I instantiate there
things that are only using
some of the tests in
the class, then that creates
confusion because now I have
to go to some tests
and understand which tests use
it, which test don't and
understand what context it's used
when it's relevant and so
on. And that does create
confusion. So set up can
be abused and I can
see their point to the
point where I don't have
a problem with people will
never use setup and only
use factory methods from within
the tests. But as a
learning tool, as a, as
a step to, to getting
to reuse code tests, set
up method is great. I
think you made an interesting
point though, that if you
find yourself using a setup
method and it's really just
project creation, then maybe you
need to be thinking about
how you create your objects
in a factory method inside
of the test would be
easier. Cause I find a
lot of people abusing setup
in the sense that they're
saving too much state in
their test class. And then
suddenly you get yourself into
side effects where your tests
have to run in a
certain order. Well, not not,
if you not, if they
all run the same setup,
so there are tests, class
level setups, right? There's the
setup that runs per method.
And then the ones that
run per class in some
frameworks like and unit, right.
All the frameworks, have they
all have that? Yeah. So
is that something that, something
that someone should think about
the idea almost never had
to use a class level
setup if I do. It's
usually into integration test. Okay.
Okay. So the only time
you, you don't have a
smell in your tests, it's
you only use setup. I
can't tell you if you're
using integration unit. If you're
doing a test, a test
class level set up probably
means that either you're using
statics in your application or
using integration, cause you have
to clean up or set
up some sort of state
outside or generate some code
or whatever you are creating
some horrible, hard to create
state. Otherwise you would have
done it at each test.
So that's a really good
rule of thumb that I
like that if you're using
a tear down, you're probably
doing an integration test. If
you're using a class level
setup, then you probably got
some statics application got bigger
problems or thanks a lot.
Roy, the product is tight
mock isolator and the book
is the art of unit
testing. Yes. All right. Well
thanks so much, Roy Astro
for talking to me today,
this has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.